​Welcome to this video, Essential Database Operations in Chroma DB. ​After watching this video, you will be able to ​Create collections in Chroma DB Modify collections in Chroma DB ​Add, update, and delete documents from collections in Chroma DB ​In this video, you will learn how to create and modify collections, as well as how to ​add, update, and delete documents. ​These operations form the foundation for building intelligent, vector-based applications that ​leverage Chroma DB's powerful capabilities. ​First, let's look at how to create collections in Chroma DB. ​Collections are a way to organize your data. ​To get started, you import chromadb and embedding_functions, which allow you to define ​an embedding model. ​Then you define the embedding model. 
​In this case, we are using a model from SentenceTransformers. ​And we define it using the SentenceTransformerEmbeddingFunction function. ​Then you define your chromadb client and use the client's create_collection ​method to create a collection. ​Here, we're creating a collection named my_collection with a description ​in its metadata. ​Metadata can help you keep track of the purpose and contents of your collection. ​The last line generates the output, which in this case is just the collection name we ​specified earlier. ​If you already have a collection you would like to connect to, you can establish a connection ​to it using the get_collection method. 
​In this particular case, we are connecting to the my_collection collection, ​the collection we defined before. ​We can verify this by printing the collection's metadata, which in this case is the description ​we defined for my_collection. ​You can alter a collection by using the modify method. ​In this particular case, we are changing the name and metadata of our existing collection. ​Note that collection metadata in Chroma DB can accept any key-value pair that is useful ​for describing your collection. ​In this case, for demonstration purposes, we simply used the key 'key' and assigned ​it to the value 'value'. ​And again, the last line generates the output, which in this case is the modified metadata ​which simply consists of our key-value pair. 
​Please note that certain changes, such as modifying the embedding model or distance ​metric, cannot be made with an existing collection. ​To apply these changes, you need to clone a collection, which can be an expensive operation ​computationally if you have a substantial amount of data stored in your collection. ​Adding data to your collection is simple. ​Use the add method to insert documents using a list. ​You can also provide optional metadata by passing a list of dictionaries to the metadatas ​parameter. ​There are no limitations on the contents of the metadata. ​In this case, we are passing the document's source and version information. 
​Make sure to include an ID for each document in a list passed to the ids parameter. ​You can get data, such as documents, from a collection using the get method. ​Note that the get method returns a Python dictionary. ​When you run the collection.get method, the output returns all the documents in the collection. ​Note that the output does not return the embeddings. ​However, the embeddings are actually stored in the collection, but they are not displayed ​by default to keep the output clean. ​To see the embeddings we need to pass include=['embeddings'] to the get method. 
​Moreover, in addition to pulling out all the documents in a collection, you can retrieve ​individual documents by passing their IDs to the get method. ​To update existing data in your collection, use the update method. ​This enables you to modify one or more records based on their IDs. ​In this code example, we are updating the document about LangChain by specifying its ID, 'id1'. ​And we are changing both the metadata information and the text of the document. ​Note that Chroma DB handles re-embedding in the background, re-computing the embeddings ​for the document as soon as the update is submitted. ​Finally, you can either pass in a list of IDs to delete, or use the where filter to ​filter on the document's metadata. 
​Note that you can also use a combination of IDs and filters. ​In this example, only the document pertaining to LlamaIndex will be deleted because that ​is the only document for which the where statement resolves to true. ​Chroma DB uses an algorithm called Hierarchical Navigable Small World (or HNSW) to perform ​approximate nearest neighbor searches. ​The space parameter in HNSW defines the distance function used in the embedding space. ​By default, this is set to l2, which stands for the squared L2 norm. ​Other supported options include cosine for cosine distance, and ip for the inner product ​or dot product distance. ​To specify the distance function, pass your chosen value to the space key when configuring ​a Chroma DB collection at creation time. 
​In this code example, when we create a collection called my_collection, in the configuration ​dictionary, we pass cosine as the value of the space key when configuring HNSW. ​In this video, you learned that ​Chroma DB operations form the foundation for building intelligent vector-based applications. ​Collections are a way to organize your data within Chroma DB. ​You define your embedding model using Chroma DB's embedding functions. ​You create a collection using the create_collection method. ​Metadata helps you keep track of the purpose and contents of your collection. ​You connect to an existing collection by using the get_collection method. 
​You alter an existing collection by using the modify method. ​You use the add method to insert documents into a collection. ​You get data from a collection using the get method. ​You update existing data in a collection by using the update method. ​You delete data from a collection using the delete method. ​You use the HNSW space configuration parameter to specify the distance function when performing ​approximate nearest neighbor searches in Chroma DB. 