
Interactive Transcript - Enable basic transcript mode by pressing the escape key
You may navigate through the transcript using tab. To save a note for a section of text press CTRL + S. To expand your selection you may use CTRL + arrow key. You may contract your selection using shift + CTRL + arrow key. For screen readers that are incompatible with using arrow keys for shortcuts, you can replace them with the H J K L keys. Some screen readers may require using CTRL in conjunction with the alt key
​Congratulations! You've reached the end of this course. Let's take a moment to reflect ​on your journey, where you gained some essential knowledge on Vector Databases, Similarity ​Search, and Chroma DB that will help you contribute effectively to the development of Retrieval-Augmented ​Generation, or RAG, applications. Let's review some key aspects of what you ​learned throughout the course. Vector Databases simplify data storage, organization, and retrieval ​by organizing data points in a multidimensional space based on their proximity. Vector Databases ​can handle complex data types and the analysis of non-traditional data, including relationship ​data such as social likes, geospatial data, and genomic data. These types of data are ​difficult for traditional systems to store and manage. When using traditional databases, ​these data types often need a lot of preprocessing and transformation. A traditional relational ​database stores information in the form of tables, whereas a vector database stores ​data as high-dimensional vector data, also referred to as vectors. Vectors are mathematical ​objects that are defined by their size and direction. Vectors can represent many kinds ​of data including images, sounds, text files, pattern data, map data, genomic information, ​and others. Vector-based database types include in-memory, disk-based, distributed, graph-based, ​and time-based databases. You can use vector databases for image and video analysis, including ​feature aspects, similarity searches, and real-time data processing. Vector databases ​can also be used to enhance recommendation systems. GPS, fleet management, and real-time ​traffic routing suggestions are built on vector database geospatial processing capabilities. 
​Vector databases enable marketing and social sites to scale resources to manage user profiles, ​deliver trend analysis, and optimize their cloud and hardware use. Similarity search ​is the process of finding items in a dataset that are most similar to a given query item. ​It is widely used in recommendation systems, image and video retrieval, natural language ​processing, and biometrics such as facial recognition. At the core of similarity search ​is a distance or similarity metric that quantifies how alike two data points are. Chroma DB is ​a powerful vector database designed for various retrieval tasks, and it supports multimodal ​retrieval, metadata filtering, vector search, and full-text search. You can deploy Chroma DB ​in client-server mode or standalone mode. You can use metadata filtering or document ​filtering for queries in Chroma DB. Chroma DB uses the HNSW advanced algorithm for approximate ​nearest neighbor search, which efficiently finds the approximately closest chunks to ​a query within a collection. Chroma DB is suitable for a wide range of applications ​including recommender systems, document search, image retrieval, and AI-based chatbots. 
​Chroma DB operations form the foundation for building intelligent vector-based applications. ​Collections are a way to organize your data within Chroma DB. You use a variety of different ​methods to create, modify, update, and delete collections in Chroma DB. Metadata helps you ​keep track of the purpose and contents of your collections. The HNSW space configuration ​parameter is used to specify the distance function when performing approximate nearest ​neighbor searches in Chroma DB. RAG enhances LLM response quality by retrieving relevant ​external information, helping the model generate more accurate and well-supported outputs. ​Vector databases are the foundation that makes Retrieval-Augmented Generation work. The tasks ​that vector databases can perform in a RAG pipeline include embedding source documents ​and user prompts, storing embeddings, retrieving the most relevant matches, and providing the ​retrieved content for prompt augmentation. Using a vector database for all relevant RAG ​steps helps prevent critical mistakes, speeds up application development, and optimizes ​performance. Now that you've reviewed some of the fundamental ​ideas presented in this course, remember each module's glossaries and cheat sheets. You ​can use these assets to quickly reference much of what you learned. If you are not already ​enrolled in our IBM RAG and Agentic AI Professional Certificate Program, of which this course ​is a part, we encourage you to do so. Depending on your schedule and the number of courses ​in the program, this program will take about 1-2 months to complete. Each program contains ​multiple hands-on labs and a final project. The Professional Certificate Programs also ​have a capstone course where you synthesize and showcase all of the skills you've learned ​throughout the program. Congratulations on completing this course and thank you for being ​a part of this learning journey. As a next step, we recommend you continue your learning ​journey and keep applying your new skills. Here's wishing you all the best! 