​Welcome to this course, which introduces the concept of using vector databases in retrieval ​augmented generation (or RAG) applications. ​By enrolling in this course, you'll improve your data retrieval skills, gain valuable ​expertise in similarity search and vector databases, understand how they differ from ​traditional databases, and recognize their importance in recommendation systems and retrieval ​augmented generation (or RAG) applications. ​You will build on this foundation with practical experience using Chroma DB, one of the leading ​vector database solutions. ​You'll apply what you've learned by creating a real-world recommendation system powered ​by Chroma DB and an embedding model from Hugging Face. ​This project will enhance your understanding of how vector databases improve search and ​retrieval in AI-driven applications. ​Throughout the course, you'll engage in practical exercises to refine your skills in database ​management, similarity search techniques, and advanced vector operations. ​By the end, you'll have a thorough understanding of vector databases and similarity searches, ​which are essential components of the RAG pipeline. 
​This course is designed for learners who want to build practical knowledge and experience ​with vector databases and similarity search, particularly in the context of RAG. ​This course would be ideal for software developers, engineers, current or aspiring data scientists, ​and AI engineers, AI enthusiasts, professionals transitioning into AI or data science roles, ​and computer science students. ​This course only requires prior knowledge of Python. ​Other useful knowledge includes a basic understanding of generative AI and foundational software ​design principles. ​This course has two modules. ​We encourage you to set aside time to complete all the modules. ​The first module is Introduction to Vector Databases and Chroma DB. 
​In this module, you will be introduced to the concept of vector databases and you will ​learn how vector databases serve as the foundation of recommendation systems and how they differ ​from traditional databases in storing and managing vector data. ​This module examines different types of vector databases and their applications, particularly ​focusing on Chroma DB. ​You will explore the Chroma DB architecture and learn about common coding practices for ​its operations. ​You will gain hands-on experience performing basic vector database operations. ​You will also learn about similarity search and get hands-on experience performing similarity ​searches both manually and with Chroma DB. ​By the end of this module, you will have a clear understanding of the transformative ​role of vector databases in modern data management systems. ​The second module is Vector Databases for Recommendation Systems and RAG. 
​This module helps you understand the connections between vector databases, similarity search, ​recommendation systems, and RAG. ​It covers how to perform essential database operations using Chroma DB. ​You will gain a deeper understanding of both recommendation systems and Chroma DB with hands-on ​experience analyzing employee data and building a food search recommendation system. ​By the end of this module, you will have a clear understanding of the critical role vector ​databases and similarity searches play within RAG applications. ​To get the most benefit from this course, watch all the videos and review the readings. ​You can reinforce your learning by completing all the hands-on activities such as the labs ​and the practice and graded quizzes. ​We encourage you to participate in the course discussion forums to connect with others taking ​the course or to get help from the course staff. 
​So there's a lot to cover here. ​We are thrilled that you will join us on this learning journey. ​Let's get started. ​Good luck! 