​Welcome to this video where you will ​explore essential vector database concepts. ​Traditional databases have been ​the standard for data management. ​With the availability of increasingly complex data types, ​the need for a more advanced solution has ​led to the development of vector databases. ​After watching this video, ​you will be able to discuss ​the importance of vector databases, ​describe vector database characteristics, ​and explain vectors and their elements. ​Companies use vector databases ​as libraries to find information, ​mine data, and teach computers how to learn. ​Vector databases simplify data storage, organization, ​and retrieval by organizing ​data points in a multi-dimensional space ​based on their proximity. ​You can retrieve vector data representations from ​their databases to perform analytical tasks, ​such as grouping items, classifying items, ​and suggesting relationships among items. 
​Let's take a closer look at these uses. ​Vector databases handle complex data types ​and the analysis of non-traditional data, ​including relationship data such as social likes, ​geospatial data, and genomic data, ​which are difficult for traditional systems ​to store and manage. ​When using traditional databases, ​these data types often need a lot ​of pre-processing and transformation. ​Vector databases are great at handling ​complex data types for easy storage, ​fast retrieval, and complex data analysis. ​Vector databases can quickly ​and accurately locate related items, ​known as a similarity search, ​based on each database item's proximity to each other in ​the high dimensional space ​where the vectors represent data. ​Similarity searches are essential ​for finding images and sounds, ​receiving and providing suggestions or ​recommendations, and genetic analysis. ​Vector databases use ​techniques including distributed computing, ​indexing, and parallel processing to ​quickly manage big datasets and process queries. 
​Whether your domain is biology, ​healthcare, e-commerce, social media, ​or traffic planning, your industry depends on ​the ability to store and ​analyze enormous amounts of data quickly. ​Vector databases can help with ​climate analysis, calculating patient outcomes, ​delivering product recommendations, ​sharing social connection suggestions, ​and conducting traffic analysis. ​Vector databases are an integral component of ​machine learning and artificial intelligence, ​AI systems. ​They are a natural way to store ​and explore machine learning data. ​Vector databases easily integrate into ​machine learning pipelines and speed up ​the creation and release of AI powered apps. ​Traditional relational databases ​store information in the form of tables. ​At its core, a vector database stores data ​as high dimensional vector data, ​also referred to as vectors. 
​Vectors are mathematical objects ​that are defined by their size and direction. ​Vectors can represent many kinds ​of data, including images, ​sounds, text files, pattern data, ​map data, genomic information, and others. ​A vector in a vector database is ​a mathematical way to show ​data points in a place with more than one dimension. ​A vector, an array of numerical values that ​relate to different features or attributes of the data, ​is used to show each data point. ​Each numerical point is a dimension. ​For example, suppose you are ​looking for books on an online platform. ​The platform contains multiple books ​or novels based on fiction, ​non-fiction, and science fiction. 
​Now, see how you can ​represent these books in terms of vectors. ​For example, a fiction book uses vector numbers of 1, ​350, 2003, and 4.5. ​A non-fiction book uses vector numbers such as 2, ​250, 2015, and 4.8. ​A science fiction book uses vector numbers of 3, ​400, 1990, and 4.2. ​Here, the first number represents the genre. ​For example, the number 1 is for fiction, ​the number 2 is for non-fiction, ​and the number 3 is for science fiction. ​The second number represents ​the number of pages in the book. 
​The third number represents the book's publication year, ​and the fourth number represents ​the book's average rating. ​Next, let's say you are ​interested in science fiction books with ​approximately 200 pages and ratings between 4.7 and 5.0. ​Next, review the list of ​science fiction books available online. ​Book 1 contains vector values of 1, 180, 2010, 4.6. ​Book 2 contains vector values of 1, 220, 2005, 4.8. ​Book 3 contains vector values of 1, 210, 2015, 4.9. ​Book 4 contains vector values of 1, 190, 2018, 4.7. 
​Book 5 contains vector values of 1, 200, 2012, 4.5. ​Rather than searching the entire platform, ​these vector points provide ​a better experience and help you locate ​science fiction books with ​approximately 200 pages with ​a rating between 4.7 and 5.0. ​In this video, you learned that ​vector databases simplify data storage, organization, ​and retrieval of complex data types, ​including images, likes, ​sounds, text files, pattern data, ​map data, genomic information, and others. ​You can use vector databases for ​analysis tasks that group items, ​classify items, and suggest relationships among items. ​Vector databases, an integral part of ​machine learning and for data in diverse domains, ​offer high performance and scalability. ​Vector databases store data as ​mathematical objects defined by size and direction. ​Vector databases use distributed computing, indexing, ​and parallel processing techniques to ​quickly manage big datasets and process queries. 
​A vector is an array of numerical values ​relating to different features or data attributes. 