### Practice App Item

# Lab: Similarity Search by Hand

In this lab, you will learn how to manually compute several common distance and similarity metrics used in machine learning and information retrieval. These metrics are fundamental to similarity search, which involves comparing data points—often represented as embedding vectors—to identify those that are most alike. Embedding vectors encode information such that their direction typically reflects the semantic content or topic of the input (e.g., a piece of text), while their magnitude can represent the intensity or importance of the encoded features. In this lab, you will calculate the Euclidean distance (L2 norm), dot product, and cosine similarity, gaining a deeper understanding of how these metrics quantify similarity and power search algorithms behind the scenes.  

To launch the lab, check the box below indicating "I agree to use this app responsibly.", and then click on the Launch App button. This will open up the lab environment in a new browser tab.

This lab uses IBM Skills Network Labs (SN Labs), which is a virtual lab environment used in this course. Upon clicking Launch App your Username and Email will be passed to Skills Network Labs and will only be used for communicating important information to enhance your learning experience, in accordance with IBM Skills Network Privacy policy.

 In case you need to download the Jupyter Notebook click 
HERE
 to open in a new tab. 



This course uses a third-party app, Lab: Similarity Search by Hand, to enhance your learning experience. The app will reference basic information like your name, email, and Coursera ID.
Coursera Honor Code
I agree to use this app responsibly.

