​Welcome to this video, Chroma DB Key Concepts and Architecture. ​After watching this video, you'll be able to ​Understand the core features and capabilities of Chroma DB, ​Understand the different deployment options of Chroma DB, ​Explain the architecture and workflow of Chroma DB, ​And understand data operations that can be performed by Chroma DB. ​Chroma DB is a vector database specifically designed to support various retrieval tasks. ​It offers the following capabilities. ​Storage of embeddings and their metadata to efficiently store and manage vector representations ​of data. ​Vector search compares vector embeddings to find text based on semantic similarity using ​distance metrics such as cosine distance. ​Full text search to find relevant documents based on lexical or spelling similarity. 
​Data storage to store entire documents, not just their embeddings. ​Metadata filtering can be used to narrow down search results based on metadata to improve ​the accuracy of the data retrieval process. ​And lastly, multi-modal retrieval to retrieve and manage multi-modal data such as images, ​audio and text in a unified manner. ​Chroma DB can be deployed in one of two ways. ​Chroma DB typically operates using a client-server architecture, where the Chroma client connects ​to a Chroma server running in a separate process. ​The server can be launched either via the Chroma command-line interface, including the ​core Chroma package, or by using a Docker image. ​The clients, whether local or remote, connect to the server using the HTTP protocol. 
​For Python, Chroma can run in a standalone mode instead of the typical client-server ​setup. ​In standalone mode, both the server and client functionalities are run within a single process. ​This mode is useful for quickly testing Chroma's features or when the server is expected to ​always run on the same machine as the client. ​Let's take a brief look at Chroma's vector database architecture. ​The Chroma vector database architecture works in multiple phases. ​During the first phase, which is optional, you'll obtain embeddings. ​During this phase, you'll convert text, images, or data into their vector representations ​using an embedding model. 
​This step is optional because you can offload the embedding step to Chroma DB if you want. ​In the next phase, you'll create collections. ​Similar to tables in a relational database, Chroma DB uses collections to store all of ​its data. ​The next phase is where you store data within the collections. ​If you created embeddings outside of Chroma DB, you would have to pass the embeddings to Chroma DB ​at this step. ​Otherwise, if you allow Chroma DB to handle embedding, then Chroma DB will calculate and ​store the embeddings from the documents in the background. ​Next comes the phase where you perform collection operations. 
​Chroma DB lets you perform various database operations including deleting, updating, or ​renaming your collections, giving you more options for organizing your data. ​In the final phase, you query and group data for the most useful information. ​Chroma DB lets users use text or vector queries to find information in groups based on semantic ​meaning or textual similarity. ​Moreover, Chroma DB allows users to filter documents on their metadata and document contents. ​Chroma DB supports multiple clients and integrations. ​The officially supported clients for Chroma DB are Python and JavaScript, and these are maintained ​by the ChromaCore team. ​There are also several unofficial community-supported clients for Chroma DB, including Ruby, Java, ​Go, C#, Rust, and PHP. 
​For more information on these clients and their supported features, visit the Chroma ​Ecosystem Clients page in the Chroma Cookbook at the URL displayed here. ​Chroma DB can also be integrated with popular frameworks and tools such as LangChain, LlamaIndex ​and OLlama. ​And it provides native integration with embedding models from Hugging Face, Google, and OpenAI. ​Let's take a high-level look at an example of a typical Chroma DB workflow. ​The first step is to create a collection, which involves giving it a logical name. ​The next step is to add chunks of text and associated metadata to the collection. ​When you do this, Chroma DB automatically stores the text and handles the embedding process. 
​Alternatively, if you precomputed the embeddings before this step, you would supply those embeddings ​here along with the text. ​Lastly, you query the collection, and Chroma DB returns a list of the most similar results. ​Again, Chroma DB handles the embedding of your query automatically, so you don't need to ​embed the query text before running your query. ​By default, Chroma uses Euclidean distance to identify the most similar chunks within ​a collection. ​It also supports cosine distance and dot product calculation. ​Let's take a quick look at the performance features of Chroma DB. ​Chroma DB offers efficient similarity search capabilities, as it is optimized for approximate ​nearest neighbor search, allowing users to find similar vectors quickly. 
​Internally, Chroma uses an advanced algorithm called the Hierarchical Navigable Small World ​or HNSW for short, for efficiently finding the approximate nearest neighbor according ​to the chosen distance metric. ​Chroma DB also offers good coding practices. ​The core of Chroma DB was written in Rust, which allows for 3 to 5 times speed improvements ​in querying and writing operations when compared to a core written in Python. ​Some of the most common use cases and applications for Chroma DB include the following. ​Building personalized recommender systems based on user preferences, implementing efficient ​document search engines using vector or full-text search capabilities, retrieving images based ​on text queries using multi-modal retrieval, and providing chatbots with semantic search ​and retrieval capabilities for context augmentation. ​In this video, you learned that ​Chroma DB is a powerful vector database designed for various retrieval tasks. ​Chroma DB supports multi-modal retrieval, metadata filtering, vector search, and full-text search. 
​Deploying Chroma DB can be done using client-server architecture or standalone mode. ​Chroma DB integrates with popular frameworks and supports multiple programming languages. ​Chroma DB uses an advanced algorithm for approximate nearest neighbor search, which efficiently ​finds the approximately closest chunks to a query within a collection. ​And Chroma DB is suitable for a wide range of applications, including recommender systems, ​document search, image retrieval, and AI-based chatbots. 