# Lab: Similarity Search on Text Using Chroma DB and Python

In this lab, you will work with implementing text similarity search using embeddings in Chroma DB, a database system designed for managing and querying text data efficiently.

You will learn how to create a collection and populate the database with a set of sample text documents, where each document is associated with a unique ID and its corresponding embedding generated using the SentenceTransformer embedding function. Subsequently, you will perform a similarity search on a specified query term, retrieving the top three documents that exhibit the highest similarity to the query term.  

To launch the lab, check the box below indicating "I agree to use this app responsibly.", and then click on the Launch App button. This will open up the lab environment in a new browser tab.

This lab uses IBM Skills Network Labs (SN Labs), which is a virtual lab environment used in this course. Upon clicking Launch App your Username and Email will be passed to Skills Network Labs and will only be used for communicating important information to enhance your learning experience, in accordance with IBM Skills Network Privacy policy.

In case you need to download or print the lab instructions, open the 
lab instructions
 in a new tab.

This course uses a third-party app, Lab: Similarity Search on Text Using Chroma DB and Python, to enhance your learning experience. The app will reference basic information like your name, email, and Coursera ID.
Coursera Honor Code
I agree to use this app responsibly.