​You can kind of think of an AI model as a vegetable you want to grow in your garden. ​Before you buy the seeds, you need to research the weather and water requirements for that ​plant or else it might die before it ever flowers. ​And as it grows, you need to evaluate and re-optimize the care you're providing so that ​it can thrive and bloom. ​And for an entire garden, you need to do that with every vegetable and make sure that none ​of them interact with each other harmfully, which is important because you need all of ​those different vegetables in order to survive. ​You can't live on carrots alone. ​Welcome to AI Academy. ​I'm Nicholas Renott, and I'm not a gardener, but I am Chief AI Engineer at IBM Client Engineering. 
​If you want your AI garden to grow, you need to ensure that you're using a variety of vegetables, ​or in this case, multiple models. ​That's what we call a multi-model approach, where you have a variety of models for your ​AI use cases. ​This means you can pick and choose from different models to find the right one for the right ​use case, which gives you the opportunity to look at how each of those models is designed ​as you find the right fit. ​You need to ask specific, important questions. ​Who built it? ​What data was it trained on? ​What guardrails are in place for it? 
​What risks and regulations do you need to consider and account for? ​The other challenge when it comes to finding the right model for the right use case is ​identifying the best use case to fit your business needs. ​And that begins with a prompt. ​A prompt is a textual input or instruction that goes into a large language model to set ​up the basics of the AI. ​What a good prompt does is clearly articulate your use case and the problem you're solving ​with AI. ​So, the first step in the process of choosing a model for your use case is writing a very ​specific prompt that captures use case, user problem, the ask of the technology, and the ​guardrails for what good looks like. ​Next, you'll research the available models, looking at things like model size, performance, ​costs, risks, and deployment methods. 
​You can then use the information you've collected to evaluate those models against your prompt ​and identify which of them you first want to test. ​Start with a large model and work with it until you satisfy your original prompt. ​Then, try to duplicate the result using smaller models. ​You're essentially passing the same prompt through different models to experiment and ​see which works best. ​That enables you to choose the best model for the use case, but it's not the end of ​the process. ​You're going to want to continually evaluate and govern that model with ongoing testing ​so you assess how it's working based on performance and cost benchmarks. ​It's like that idea of the garden. 
​You need to tend to it, not just plant the seeds and hope for the best. ​And part of that ongoing care is to continually update the data and the prompt where needed ​to keep it relevant and also test new models as they become available. ​You don't want to stick to just one model forever and get locked in as situations change ​both inside and outside your business. ​Now, all throughout this process, you want to be constantly thinking about the factors ​that affect your choice of model. ​In addition to the three elements of performance, accuracy, reliability, and speed, you also ​want to consider size, deployment method, transparency, and any potential risks. ​All of those need to be considered as you choose the right model for your use case and ​then start to implement it. ​That implementation is going to require a team that not only crosses disciplines, but ​also crosses lines of business. 
​Don't think of it as proprietary to any one department, but treat it as a distinctly collaborative ​project that takes multiple teams to get up and running. ​Ensure that this team is ready and able to diagnose performance benchmarks, each of which ​measures something unique and produces a dataset that shows how everything is being calculated. ​Without this, you can't make informed decisions about this in future models and use cases. ​And remember, even once your little AI model crop is growing happily, you need to keep ​taking care of it. ​In this case, that means continuous testing, governance, and optimization, all of which ​are essential to keep that model up to date and running optimally. ​Remember, models evolve, so your strategy and choices need to do the same. ​You want to keep growing towards the sun instead of withering on the vine. 
​Check out the AI Academy archives for deep dives into other aspects of AI for business ​and watch this space for future episodes. 