​Just the other day, I noticed that Gartner reported that 80% of enterprises will have ​used some type of generative AI through models or APIs by 2026. ​And I can't lie, as a developer, this had me a little bit worried because, yeah, I've ​used AI through different co-pilots in my IDE, and also I've used popular large language ​models online before, but I have no experience actually building applications that use AI. ​Well, this is before I found out how easy it is to get started with AI as a developer. ​So today we're focused on building applications that use GenAI. ​We're going to talk about where to get started, how to build these AI-powered applications, ​and where to run them. ​And you'll also learn today about some of the different open source tools and technologies ​that can help in my inner loop development of building, running, and testing applications ​now with the power of AI at our fingertips. ​So while there's plenty of options out there for locally running a large language model ​on my laptop, today we're actually going to talk about the three main steps of the AI ​journey that developers are going to experience when going from a simple proof of concept ​to a production application. 
​Mainly, these are the ideation and experimentation phases, the building, and also the development ​and operation side of things. ​So I have a question for you. ​How do you get started building an application that uses generative AI? ​Well, the first step is ideating around exploration and proof of concepts, which I can break down ​in a few simple steps. ​So firstly, remember that your use case is specialized, so you need a specialized model ​that can do the job as well. ​You'll start from researching and evaluating models from popular repositories like Hugging ​Face or the open source community. ​And that's a great start. 
​But you also need to think about different factors such as the model size, or say, for ​example, its performance, and understand the benchmarking through popular benchmark ​tools that are out there as well. ​For example, there's a couple different ground rules that you need to understand. ​Generally, self hosting a large language model will be cheaper than a cloud-based service. ​And small language models, SLMs, versus large language models, LLMs, will generally perform ​better with lower latency, and they're specialized for a specific task. ​Now, you should also understand about various prompting techniques when you're actually ​working with the model. ​For example, zero-shot prompting. ​Now what this is, is essentially asking a model a question without any examples of how ​to respond. 
​Now, we can also do this a little bit differently with what's known as few-shot prompting, where ​we're actually giving a few different examples of how to respond, the behavior you want the ​LLM to have as we're working with the AI, and also chain of thought, which is actually ​asking the model to explain its thinking, its process, step by step. ​So congratulations, you can now put AI engineer on your resume. ​But in all seriousness, you need to understand the different capabilities and limitations ​of the models that you're working with. ​And you can do this and experiment with your data early on so that you can understand any ​potential challenges that might come up as you go through the AI journey. ​Now that we've evaluated models for our use case, it's time to build our application. ​Now, just as we can locally run databases and different services on our machine, well, ​we can actually do the same with AI to actually serve it locally from our machine and be able ​to make requests to its API from local host. ​Plus, you also get the added benefit of knowing that your data is secure and private on premise. 
​That's really important nowadays. ​But what if you want to use that data with your large language model as well? ​Well, there's a few different methods to do so, starting with what's known as retrieval, ​augmented generation, or RAG, where you actually take a large language model, ​a pre-trained foundational model, and supplement it with relevant and accurate data. ​And this can help provide better and more accurate responses. ​But what you can also do is fine tune the model. ​So take the large language model and include the data with it. ​So we're actually baking this information, how we want it to behave, the different styles ​and intuition that we want it to react with, actually into the model itself. 
​And so then we can inference it and be able to have that domain-specific data ​every time that we're actually working with the AI model itself. ​Now, these are just two approaches. ​There are many more. ​But I also want to mention that having the right tools and frameworks, such as ​LangChain, are going to simplify your life. ​They're going to let you focus on building out new features, such ​as the popular generative AI use cases like chatbot, IT process automation, data management, ​and much, much more by simplifying the different calls that you're going to make through the model. ​Now, this can be done through sequences of prompts and model calls to actually ​accomplish more complex tasks. ​So that means you're going to need to break down problems into smaller, more manageable steps. 
​And during this process, be able to evaluate the flows during these model calls, ​now, but also in a production environment, which brings us to the final step ​of operationalizing these AI-powered applications. ​So finally, you've got that application powered by AI or a large language model, ​and you want to deploy it to production to be able to scale things up. ​And this actually falls under the umbrella of something known as machine learning operations, ​or MLOps. ​But let me focus on the topics that's important for you as a developer. ​So first off, your infrastructure needs to be able to handle efficient model deployment ​and scaling. ​So using technologies such as containers and orchestrators, such as Kubernetes, ​are going to help you do this. ​Being able to auto scale and balance the traffic for your application. 
​And you can also use production-ready runtime, such as vLLM, for the model serving. ​And what we're also seeing right now is that organizations are taking ​a hybrid approach, both with their models and their infrastructure. ​So having this multi-model Swiss Army knife approach to different models for different use ​cases, as well as a combination of on-prem and cloud infrastructure to make the most ​out of your resources and your budget. ​So with all of these new AI-powered applications out there, ​say you have something in production, well, the job isn't done. ​You still need to benchmark, monitor, and be able to handle different exceptions that ​are coming from your application. ​And similar to how we have DevOps, well, we also have MLOps for ensuring models ​go into production in a smooth fashion. ​So let's take a step back, because I think we've really discovered a lot today. 
​And some of the recent innovations in the world of AI have made this topic much more ​accessible for developers like you and me. ​And you have plenty of tools out there to help you along the process. ​But what I want to emphasize is that while AI is new, well, it's actually just another ​tool that you can add to your tool belt. ​And so what you can do is use these tools and use the different steps of process to ​go from ideation, to building, to deployment of these applications to make a real impact ​with your work by using GenAI. 