​Welcome to Introduction to Flask. ​After watching this video, ​you will be able to define ​the Flask web framework and describe its main features. ​Explain how to install Flask on your machines. ​Describe main dependencies of Flask, ​and explain the main differences between ​Flask and another Python web framework called Django. ​Flask is a micro framework ​that can create web applications. ​It is not opinionated like ​some other larger frameworks and does ​not bind the user to a specific set of tools. ​One of the complex dependencies of Flask is Python. 
​You will run Flask 2.2.2, ​which requires a minimum Python version of 3.7. ​In 2004, Armin Ronacher ​created the framework as an April fool's joke. ​It quickly gained popularity for ​its ease of use and extensibility. ​Flask provides minimal dependencies ​you might need to create a web application. ​However, it is extensible and ​many community extensions add ​additional features to Flask. ​The main features of Flask include the following. ​Flask has a web server that ​runs applications in development mode. 
​Flask also comes with ​a debugger to help debug applications. ​The debugger shows interactive traceback ​and stack trace in the browser. ​Flask uses standard Python logging for application logs, ​and you can use the same logger to ​log custom messages about your application. ​Flask provides a way to ​test different parts of your application. ​The testing feature enables ​developers to follow a test-driven approach. ​You can use frameworks like Pi test and ​coverage to ensure your code works as desired. ​Finally, developers can access the request and response ​objects to pull arguments and customize responses. 
​Now, additional features of Flask are the following. ​The framework supports static assets like CSS files, ​JavaScript files, and images. ​Flask provides tags to ​load static files in the templates. ​You can also develop dynamic pages ​using Jinja templating framework and ​these dynamic pages can ​display information that may change ​for each request or may check if the user is logged in. ​Flask provides routing and supports ​dynamic URLs that are ​extremely useful for RESTful services. ​You can create routes for ​different HTTP methods and ​provide redirection in your application. ​You can write global error handlers in ​Flask that work on the application level. 
​Finally, it supports user session management. ​Some of the popular community extensions that can ​be added to your application are the following. ​Flask-SQLAlchemy add support for ​ORM called SQLAlchemy to Flask, ​giving developers a way to work ​with database objects in Python. ​Flask-Mail provides the ability to ​set up an SMTP mail server. ​Flask-Admin lets you add ​admin interfaces to Flask applications easily. ​Flask-Uploads allow you to add ​customized file uploading to your application. ​Here are some other extensions. 
​Flask-CORS allows your application to ​handle Cross-Origin Resource Sharing, ​making cross-origin JavaScript requests possible. ​Flask-Migrate adds database migrations to SQLAlchemy ORM. ​Flask-User adds user authentication, ​authorization, and other user management activities. ​Marshmallow adds extensive object serialization ​and deserialization support to your code. ​Finally, celery is a powerful task queue ​that can be used for ​simple background tasks and ​complex multi-storage programs and schedules. ​Flask is available on ​the Python package manager called pip, ​and pip is available in the lab environment. ​However, if installing on your machines, ​it is recommended that you ​first create a virtual environment ​using the venv or bin venv module. 
​You can install Flask version 2.2.2. ​Now, it is recommended to pin ​the version number of ​the dependencies in your application. ​This ensures that the application ​can be reproduced from scratch ​in different environments like ​development, staging, and production. ​It also ensures new issues and bugs are not introduced by ​mistake when packages are updated ​automatically without a version number. ​Flask comes with some built-in dependencies ​that enable the various features. ​Werkzeug implements WSGI or ​the web server gateway interface. ​This is the standard Python interface ​between applications and servers. 
​Jinja is a template language that ​renders the pages in your application. ​MarkupSafe comes with Jinja. ​It escapes untrusted input when ​rendering templates to avoid injection attacks. ​ItsDangerous is used to assign data securely. ​This helps determine if data has been tampered ​with and is used to protect Flask session cookie. ​Finally, Click is a framework ​for writing command-line applications. ​It provides the Flask command and ​allows adding custom management commands. 
​To see the built-in dependencies, ​you can use the pip freeze command ​in the virtual environment, ​and you can see that ​all the in-built packages are installed by default. ​Now, another Python developer framework is Django. ​Here are some key differences between Flask and Django. ​Flask games to be a very light framework. ​Django, on the other hand, ​is a full-stack framework. ​As a result, Flask only provides ​the basic dependencies needed ​to create a web application. ​However, the developer can choose ​other extensions that provide additional features. 
​Django, on the other hand, ​includes everything you need to ​create a full-stack application. ​Also, Flask is very flexible. ​You can add and remove pieces in a plug-and-play manner. ​On the other hand, Django is opinionated and makes ​most decisions for the developer so they ​can focus on the application's logic. ​In this video, you learned that Flask is ​a micro framework that ships with minimal dependencies. ​To build websites, Flask ​has features like debugging servers, ​routing, templates, and error handling. ​Flask can be extended by using community extensions. 
​Flask can be installed as a Python package. ​Django is a full-stack framework compared to Flask 