​Congratulations on completing this course! You now have gained a comprehensive understanding ​of building Gen AI applications. You can start exploring opportunities to continue learning ​and applying your acquired skills. But before that, let's review some key components you ​learned throughout the course. Generative AI models refer to AI systems that ​can predict and generate new content such as text, images, code, and audio based on ​input data. Foundational models are a subset of generative AI models including large language ​models or LLMs. Prompts are instructions or inputs given to ​an LLM designed to guide it toward performing a specific task or generating a desired output. 
​There are two prompt components. Instructions are clear, specific commands that tell the ​AI system what to do. Context includes necessary information or background that helps the LLM ​make sense of the instruction. Prompts can include task instructions, input ​data, contexts, and examples. While model parameters influence output, they are not ​part of the prompt itself. In context, learning is a specific method ​of prompt engineering where demonstrations of the task are provided as part of the prompt ​in natural language. It does not require any training, and a new task is learned from a ​small set of examples presented within the context at inference time. 
​Let's do a recap of the key prompting techniques. The first is the zero-shot prompt, which instructs ​an LLM to perform a task with no examples. It relies entirely on its pre-trained knowledge. ​Next is the one-shot prompt, which provides the LLM with a single example along with the ​instruction to help it perform a task. Few-shot prompt uses a small set of examples ​to help the LLM generalize patterns and apply its learning to perform a task. ​Chain of thought or COT prompt guides LLMs through complex reasoning in a step-by-step ​manner. Self-consistency enhances the reliability of the outputs by generating multiple reasoning ​paths or answers, then selecting the most consistent or most frequent one. 
​Lang chain is an open-source framework that simplifies the application development process ​using LLMs. It contains components such as language model, chat model, chat messages, ​response templates, output parsers. Chains are a sequence of calls. A sequential ​chain consists of a series of steps, each taking one input to generate one output. The ​output of step 1 becomes the input for step 2 and so on. Agents are dynamic systems where ​language models determine the sequence of actions, such as predefined chains. The model ​generates text-based outputs to guide these actions. Agents can use integrated tools such ​as databases and search engines to gather information or perform tasks that fulfill ​user requests. 
​Lang chain expression language or LCEL is a pattern for building lang chain applications ​that utilizes the pipe operator to connect components. This approach ensures a clean, ​readable flow of data from input to output. LCEL provides elegant syntax shortcuts. For ​example, instead of using runnable sequence, a similar sequential chain can be created ​by simply connecting components with a pipe, making the structure more readable and intuitive. ​Here's a brief recap of the AI models covered in this course. ​Llama3 offers enhanced context understanding while providing better handling of nuanced ​problems. It is known for enhanced reasoning capabilities. 
​Granite is IBM's advanced language model and a part of the watsonx.ai platform. It ​is optimized for enterprise use cases and offers strong performance in business and ​technical domains. ​Mixtro uses a mixture of expert systems, where each layer has 8 expert submodels and only ​two most suitable ones are activated per inference or task. It offers high adaptability due to ​specialized experts, allowing fine-tuning for specific needs. It is efficient as it ​activates only the necessary experts, making it resource-efficient for diverse tasks. ​If you are not already enrolled in the professional certificate program that includes this course, ​we encourage you to do so. Depending on your schedule and the number of courses in the ​program, you can complete it in approximately 2 to 6 months. If interested, the links to ​the courses in this program are in the congratulations and next steps reading at the end of this ​course. 
​We recommend that you continue applying the knowledge gained from this course in your ​Gen AI career. We hope these principles will refine your skills and empower you to advance ​professionally. ​Congratulations on completing this course. We appreciate your participation in this learning ​journey and wish you all the best! 