​Welcome to this introductory video about LlamaIndex that covers topics from vector stores ​to query engines. ​After watching this video, you'll be able to: ​Discuss embedding in vector stores in LlamaIndex, ​Describe how retrieval works in LlamaIndex in the presence of a vector store, ​Discuss prompt augmentation and LLM querying in LlamaIndex, and ​Explain how LlamaIndex's powerful query engines combine several RAG steps into a single object. ​Let's start with a high-level review of RAG. ​In Retrieval-Augmented Generation, documents are loaded, chunked, ​and embedded into vectors stored in a vector store. ​A user prompt is also embedded and similar chunks from the source documents are retrieved ​from the vector store. The prompt and retrieved text are combined and sent ​to a language model to generate a context-aware response. ​By now, you're already familiar with loading and chunking documents into nodes. 
​Let's begin with embedding those nodes and storing them in a vector store. ​Let's look at how you can generate embeddings. ​To generate and store embeddings, LlamaIndex uses the VectorStoreIndex class. ​For simple use cases, the embeddings can be generated using a default model and stored ​in-memory by simply passing in the nodes as the only parameter to VectorStoreIndex. ​For more complex cases that require a custom embedding model and persistent storage, ​the following procedure is needed. First, import the necessary libraries. ​In this case, you are importing the ChromaDB vector database to store the embeddings ​and a function that imports embedding models from HuggingFace. 
​Then define the embedding model. In this case, you are using an embedding model from HuggingFace. ​Next, set up your vector store and storage context. In this case, you are using ChromaDB and then ​passing the embedding model and storage context into VectorStoreIndex. ​Then pass the nodes, the embedding model, and the storage context ​into VectorStoreIndex to generate embeddings using the selected model ​and to store the embedding vectors inside the persistent storage defined by the storage context. ​Thus, whether you store embedding vectors in-memory or in persistent storage, ​LlamaIndex's powerful VectorStoreIndex class efficiently handles both embedding text chunks ​and storing the resulting embeddings in the vector store. ​Given a VectorStoreIndex, the user's original prompt, embedding, ​and retrieval steps can be combined in LlamaIndex using the following process. 
​First, create the retriever by calling the "as_retriever" method on the VectorStoreIndex ​object. Then pass the user's prompt to the retriever object's retrieve method to obtain ​the relevant results. Alternatively, if you need to control the maximum number of items retrieved, ​specify the maximum number of retrieved items by setting the similarity_top_k ​parameter when creating the retriever object. ​When the user's prompt is passed to this retriever, it retrieves the k nodes most ​similar to the user's prompt from the vector store, which in this case would be 5 nodes. The retrieved ​nodes are returned as a ranked list with the most similar nodes at the top of the list. ​Let's now discuss prompt augmentation, LLM querying, and response generation. ​LlamaIndex has the ability to combine the prompt augmentation, ​LLM querying, and response generation RAG steps using a response synthesizer. 
​Given a user's prompt and retrieved nodes, the response synthesizer's synthesize method ​generates a response from the LLM. Note that the embedding of the user's prompt, ​prompt augmentation, and the passing of the augmented prompt to the LLM are done in the ​background, and no additional steps have to be taken by the user to perform these steps manually. ​With LlamaIndex, the process can be simplified even further using a query engine. ​LlamaIndex's query engine combines the prompt embedding, ​retrieval, prompt augmentation, LLM querying, and response generation steps, ​eliminating the need to manually retrieve nodes and to pass them to a response synthesizer. ​Given a user's prompt, the query engine's query method generates a response from the LLM. ​Note that the embeddings of the user's prompt, retrieval, prompt augmentation, ​and the passing of the augmented prompt to the LLM are done in the background, ​and no additional steps have to be taken by the user to perform these tasks manually. ​As a result, LlamaIndex's query engines greatly reduce the amount of code that needs to be ​written when building a RAG application. And remember these helpful tips when ​creating your application. You can customize a LlamaIndex ​query engine by changing the default LLM to a different one of your choosing, ​defining a custom prompt template for prompt augmentation, or by specifying a custom retriever. 
​LlamaIndex provides numerous avenues to customize the RAG process to fit the needs of your ​application. Let's review what you've learned. In this video, you learned that ​LlamaIndex uses the VectorStoreIndex class for embedding generation and storage. ​You create the retriever by calling the "as_retriever" method on the ​VectorStoreIndex object. Then you pass the user's prompt to the retriever object's ​retrieve method to obtain relevant results. The response synthesizer in LlamaIndex combines ​prompt augmentation, LLM querying, and response generation in one step. ​The response synthesizer uses the original prompt and retrieved nodes to generate a response, ​refining it if needed with leftover nodes. You can customize response synthesizer behavior ​using different LLMs or prompt templates. A query engine can compress the process ​further by combining the prompt embedding, retrieval, prompt augmentation, LLM querying, ​and response generation RAG steps into a few simple commands. And a query engine can be ​modified by changing the default LLM, customizing the prompt template, or modifying the retriever. 