Congratulations on completing the Build RAG Applications: Get Started course! We hope you enjoyed it and find much success using your new skills in the workplace or elsewhere.

This course is part of the 
 
IBM RAG and Agentic AI Professional Certificate
 (coming soon) . This professional certificate provides technical knowledge and sought-after practical skills, with industry experts contributing to every course. You’ll complete this certificate program with in-demand skills, ready to incorporate generative AI into your development processes, build applications that use RAG, and build multimodal and agentic applications. 

Also, consider these individual courses that are part of the professional certificate. 

When you enroll in 
Vector Databases for RAG: An Introduction
 (coming soon), you will build AI-powered retrieval systems with hands-on training in ChromaDB. You’ll learn to manage embeddings, run similarity searches, and create a recommendation engine using Hugging Face models. You’ll complete the course with practical skills for RAG pipelines and scalable search in modern ML and NLP applications.

Also consider enrolling in 
Advanced RAG with Vector Databases and Retrievers
 (coming soon) to master RAG, vector search, and tools like FAISS, ChromaDB, LangChain, and Gradio. You’ll learn how to build real-time AI apps that retrieve, summarize, and answer, and gain practical skills to improve search, chatbots, and recommender systems.

We also encourage you to leave your feedback and rate this course so that we can continue to improve our content.

Good luck!

