[MUSIC] ​Welcome to Getting Started with Gradio. ​After watching this video, you'll be able to describe what Gradio is, and ​explain how to set up a Gradio interface for model interaction. ​Gradio is an open-source python library for ​creating customizable web-based user interfaces. ​It is designed for ease of use, especially for machine learning models and ​computational tools. ​Lets take a step by step look at how it works. ​First you write the Python code to define the functions and logic for ​your application. ​Next, you use Gradio to create an interface for these functions. 
​Here you use Gradio's interface class to specify the inputs and outputs for ​your functions. ​Then configure the interface to define how users will interact with your application. ​The next step is launching the Gradio server using the launch method. ​This starts a local server on your machine creating a web interface for ​your application. ​As the final step, you have access to the web interface through a local or ​public URL provided by Gradio. ​Users can interact with the interface providing inputs and ​receiving outputs in real time. ​First, you need to install the Gradio package using PIP. 
​Once installed, you can import gradio as gr. ​Now let's code a simple Gradio interface that has a text input field, and ​then displays the entered text as output. ​The gr.Interface function is a core component of the Gradio library. ​It creates interactive web interfaces for ​Python functions with customizable input and output components. ​You then define the function to be executed once the user enters the query. ​Here you can define any functionality according to the use case, in this case, ​you're just returning the enter text. ​gr.Textbox is used to create a text box wherein you can also define ​a custom label for the text box. ​Similarly, you create a textbox for the output. 
​Using launch, you can then run the interface. ​Here is the Gradio interface you get from the code. ​As you can see here, there are two text boxes, one for input and one for output. ​Lets see how you can have multiple inputs in the Gradio interface. ​Just like gr.Textbook is used to create a text field, in the same way gr.Number is ​used to create a numeric field. ​You can pass gr.Number and gr.Textbook as a list of inputs. ​Similarly, if you want to add more inputs you can add them here in the input list. 
​Now, let's see the output from the generated code. ​You can observe that you now have two types of inputs, one for text and ​one for numeric values. ​You can also create an option to upload or drop files with Gradio. ​Here is a code to count the number of files uploaded by a user. gr.File allows ​users to upload files in a web interface. ​It supports multiple file uploads, and provides paths to uploaded files for ​further processing in the backend function. ​You then define the count files to calculate the number of files uploaded by ​the user. ​Once you launch the code, it generates a unique web interface link ​which can be used from anywhere until the session is running. 
​You now have the option to upload or drop the files through a web interface. ​Let's recap, in this video you learned that Gradio is an open-source Python ​library for creating customizable web-based user interfaces. ​To set it up, you have to write the Python code, create the Gradio interface, ​launch the Gradio server using the launch method, and ​access the web interface through a local or public URL provided by Gradio. ​You learned that to code a simple text input and output with a Gradio interface, ​you can use the Gradio interface function. ​Finally, you learned that to upload or drop files with Gradio in a web interface, ​you can use the gr.File. ​[MUSIC] 